# pandas-challenge
Module 4 Challenge
# Code Source
Jupyter code (PyCitySchools.ipynb) within PyCitySchools folder.
# District Summary
Import Libraries given in the starter code.
Load school data csv and student data csv location with path file. 
Created a merged DataFrames for school and student data. 
District summary calculations: Total Schools, Total Students, Total Budget, Average Math Score, Average Reading Score, % Passing Math, % Passing Reading, and % Overall Passing Math and Reading.
Created a new DataFrame District Summary to display calculations in a table.
# School Summary
Per summary calculations: School Type, Total Students, Total School Budget, Per Student Budget, Average Math Score, Average Reading Score, % Passing Math, % Passing Reading, and % Overall Passing.
Created a new DataFrame per_school_summary to display calculations in a table.
# Highest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
Sorted by % Overall Passing and displaying the top 5 rows in descending order. 
# Lowest-Performing Schools (by % Overall Passing)
Sorted by % Overall Passing and displaying the bottom 5 rows in ascending order. 
# Math Scores by Grade
Per grade level 9th to 12th calculate the average math grade by school name. 
Created a DataFrame that lists the average math score for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.
# Reading Scores by Grade
Per grade level 9th to 12th calculate the average reading grade by school name. 
Created a DataFrame that lists the average reading score for students of each grade level (9th, 10th, 11th, 12th) at each school.
# Scores by School Spending
Establish the bins, created a copy of the school summary, and used pd.cut on the per_school_capita series to categorize per student spending based on bins.
Spending summary calculations: Average Math Score, Average Reading Score, % Passing Math, % Passing Reading, and % Overall Passing.
Created a new DataFrame Spending Summary to display table. 
Created a table that breaks down school performance based on average spending ranges.
# Scores by School Size
Establish the bins, created a copy of the school summary, and used pd.cut on the per_school_counts series to categorize school size based on bins.
School size calculations: Average Math Score, Average Reading Score, % Passing Math, % Passing Reading, and % Overall Passing.
Created a new DataFrame School Size to display table. 
Created a table that breaks down school performance based on school size (small, medium, or large).
# Scores by School Type
Used the per_school_summary DataFrame to create a new DataFrame called type_summary.
Created a table that breaks down school performance based on the "School Type".
# Written Report
PyCitySchools Analysis: summarizes the analysis and draws 2 correct conclusions or comparions from the calculations. 
File as word document and pdf.
# References:
Data generated by Mockaroo, LLCLinks to an external site., (2022). Realistic Data Generator. Data for this dataset was generated by edX Boot Camps LLC, and is intended for educational purposes only. Used google for groupby with mean for column, accessed January 2025.
